# MOL file format

A Python library for working with Leetro MOL files. These files are generated by LaserCut software using a proprietary format.

This library was built on the research work done by folks at [London Hackspace](https://wiki.london.hackspace.org.uk/view/Project:RELaserSoftware/MOL_file_format) and [code](https://www.ribbonsoft.com/rsforum/viewtopic.php?f=30&t=2436&p=7965#p7965) by Matthias Melcher.

My goal is to build a python library for reading and writing MOL files.

## Samples

The samples directory consists of simple artwork files, created using inkscape, and the various intermediary files consumed or generated by the LaserCut software.

Each sample directory consists of a set of files:

* filename.svg - Source file created via inkscape
* filename.dxf - Exported from inkscape (exported as R14 DXF) and imported into LaserCut
* filename.ecp - Native file format used by LaserCut
* FILENAME.INI - LaserCut settings saved with ECP file
* FILENAME.G00 - Generated by LaserCut when saving ECP (not sure what this file is for)
* LASER.MOL - The binary file that gets uploaded to the laser control board. This file is generated by LaserCut during the upload process.
* LASER.TXT - Generated around the same time as LASER.MOL and is either an intermediate format used for compilation, or an output file for logging/debugging purposes. This appears to be the text equivalent of LASER.MOL

## Engraving mode

I've done some [analysis of the engraving commands](engraving-analysis.md).

## mol_dump.py

This script represents what I've learned about the MOL file format. There's still lots of unknowns, but I've filled in what I can based on prior work done as mentioned above, as well as some of my own insights.
